The first thing you've got to do as a
tourist is work out how on earth to
cross the road.
Terrifying.
You've just got to have faith.
This is absolutely crazy. It's pure
chaos, but somehow it works.
My name is Professor Hannah Fry,
a mathematician and writer with a
lifelong habit following my curiosity.
Especially when things are deeply,
deliciously interesting.
Teaching yoga for you.
Dionysus would approve.
Some people travel to see the world.
I travel to question the forces that
shape entire nations. Welcome to South
Korea. I wanted to come here for their
optimal urban planning.
It sort of feels quite chaotic, I'll be
honest with you.
I want to meet the people with
unexpected stories to tell. I cannot
imagine going through that as a young
boy. No.
And dig up the peculiar and wonderful
treasures that reveal what a country is
made of.
I'm looking at it and thinking, what
beautiful geometry.
This is my way to make sense of what
makes our world go round.
Vietnam is by any measure an
extraordinary place.
Stunning landscapes,
a rich cultural past,
ancient traditions,
and some of the fastest growing skylines
on the planet.
But just 50 years ago, these landscapes
were synonymous with bloodshed.
This was the center of a standoff at the
height of the Cold War.
For 20 years, the Vietnam War was a
frontline in the battle of competing
ideologies. But here, there's a
different name. It's the American war
that tore the country apart.
Since then, Vietnam has gone through the
most incredible transformation. I want
to find out what has powered the change
and see what tradition looks like in its
wake.
And so, I'm beginning my journey in a
place that was once at the heart of the
conflict, the southern metropolis Ho Chi
Minh City, formerly known as Saigon.
Today, it's home to around 10 million
people and 8 million motorbikes.
I'm told if you want to feel the rhythm
of the city, you need to move with the
chaos rather than against it.
Thank you for giving me an orange helmet
to match my hair. Appreciate
So, here goes nothing.
Thankfully, my guide, Ha, is a pro.
She's been riding since she was 16.
I'm just squealing in the back. I'm
sorry.
It is absolute bedlam, but somehow,
weirdly efficient.
patiently That's exactly it. Yeah.
Soon, it starts to look less like
traffic and more like a reflection of
something cultural. What happens when
people crash?
You'll be surprised. They just got up
and be friendly say hello to each other
and then they continue their journey. No
road rage.
Messy as it seems, this isn't anarchy.
It's cooperation at speed.
You look really carefully, there is some
order that emerges from the chaos. So,
you've got
What kind of
these little lanes that appear, like
people following each other when they're
going in the same direction.
Um mathematicians call this complex
system, by the way.
Get too nerdy about it.
But essentially, it only works
if the collective goal of everyone is
the same, which in this case
is not to crash.
Vietnam's love affair with the moped
began in the 1950s during French
colonial rule.
And while the bikes have stuck around,
the French didn't.
Largely thanks to this man,
Ho Chi Minh.
Tell me about Ho Chi Minh, then. Ho Chi
Minh is a founder of our country. We
call him Uncle Ho.
To show respect and love.
A revolutionary leader from the north of
the country, Ho Chi Minh led a
hard-fought battle for Vietnamese
independence.
With the might of the communist nations
China and the USSR behind him, he ended
French rule in 1954.
But when the colonial power left, the
ideological battle began.
North Vietnam fully embraced communism.
The south refused to follow.
And this time, the United States got
involved.
Determined to stop the spread of
communism, they threw their weight
behind the South Vietnamese, and
suddenly Saigon was in the crosshairs.
But it was also the place where in 1975,
the communists finally claimed victory.
So, this is a reunification palace,
where they put to the end to the war in
'75. And that was it when it was done.
Correct. Oh, wow. And the country has
remained communist ever since.
Just a year later, the Vietnamese
celebrated their victory by renaming
Saigon as Ho Chi Minh City after the man
who began it all. Although, you will
still hear people using both names.
I mean, it's quite a troubled history.
Like French rule, then the American war,
and then finally unification.
This is now one of the fastest growing
cities on the planet.
50 years isn't very long for all of
this. No, not.
Amazing.
But while its skyline is racing into the
future, its history is never far beneath
the surface.
Okay, here we are. Away from all the
newness of the modern city, Ha takes me
somewhere unassuming, somewhere that
quietly remembers what came before.
Never again.
A story that starts with a bowl of soup.
Pho is a soup made bone broth and
noodles that originated in North
Vietnam. Oh, it smells delicious. Yeah.
Mhm, the broth is amazing.
Traditionally, it was eaten for
breakfast, but you will now find it
served for lunch and dinner, too.
Is this the national dish? I would say
so. And you find the same thing across
the country?
We have this dish across the country.
However, the north the flavor of the
north is more authentic. Uh they are
getting the natural sweetness from the
bones,
but the south will say the dish from the
north is too boring
for them. They're adding the herbs
inside of this.
Do you think that's the character of the
people that like the north are just more
like purist, more keep it as it is?
>> I would agree.
Uh the the north they are more like
conservative style, and while the south
people they are more chill, more
relaxed, more open-minded. More
open-minded to chatting in her room.
The cultural contrast is striking. And
during the war, these were divisions
with devastating consequences.
In total, over 3 million people lost
their lives in the conflict, many of
them civilians.
But this wasn't a war that was fought on
tidy geological fronts.
Even in the heart of the South, there
were people who supported the North
Vietnamese guerrilla army, known as the
Viet Cong.
And in this family-run restaurant,
American GIs and South Vietnamese
soldiers ate their soup, totally unaware
that just a few meters above their
heads, the Viet Cong had a secret
headquarters, where they would plan
their covert missions and surprise
attacks. This is Mr. Lap. Hello. Hello.
Hello.
This room has now been turned into a
museum. But at the time, Mr. Lap was a
12-year-old boy helping out in the
family restaurant.
Oh, really? Yeah. This is your dad?
Along with about 100 fellow fighters,
Mr. Lap's father helped to organize a
series of surprise attacks on Southern
targets, part of what has become known
as the Tet Offensive.
It was a key turning point in the war
for the communist north. They
Mhm. Oh, wow. Getting ready. But soon
after the first attacks, the South
Vietnamese army stormed into the
restaurant and raided the secret
headquarters.
Mhm.
Yes.
Wow. And that's when they discovered
what this room was being used for. No.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. It's okay. I know it's his
story. His story.
>> know.
I mean, this is your history, too,
right? And the thing is there must be
millions of people across Vietnam who
have these stories.
Like your parents, I imagine. Your
grandparents.
The thing is this is what I find really
extraordinary is that you're able to
talk about it with like
such compassion.
You know, I I cannot imagine going
through that as a young boy.
Mr. Lap, who spent the rest of the war
as a child without his parents, was
eventually reunited with his father.
And his decision to keep the family
restaurant and create this small museum
has meant that people from around the
world have been able to come and eat
soup and hear his story.
I could kiss Tom's nose.
Thank you.
Wow.
I think it's this is a country that has
this unbelievably painful past. I mean,
50 years really isn't a very long time.
And yet, somehow or other,
they seem to have made this collective
decision to let that story be part of
their past, rather than something that
defines their present.
Not many nations come through a war this
brutal with such generosity of spirit.
I'm left wondering how Vietnam managed
it. And what led to the divisions in the
first place.
But first, sleep.
Now, how do I cross those roads again?
I've left Ho Chi Minh City behind,
and I'm heading into Vietnam's
agricultural heartland, the Mekong
Delta.
Yes, a scenic meander down the river is
a lovely way to travel. But the boat
trip is also a handy visual aid for why
there have been centuries of cultural
disagreement.
Allow me to explain by showing you on a
map.
Now, there are two big things to notice.
The first is the shape of the country,
right? Vietnam is extremely long. It's
1,600 km from top to bottom, which by
the way is about the same distance as
New York to Florida. Second thing to
notice about Vietnam is that there are
major river deltas, one in the south and
one in the north.
And these two deltas are very different
flavors.
Now, the Red River, she's like the drama
queen of rivers. She's hemmed in by
mountains, and so she has lots of steep
inclines and is prone to unpredictable
flooding.
And so, to survive, you are going to
need to build and maintain massive
dikes. And that means labor, that means
taxes, it means collaboration, in short.
It makes sense that the north is where
communism took hold, especially when
China is right on their doorstep.
In the south, however, the Mekong is
just much more of a chill guy. Like,
this delta is very large, the river is
nice and flat, nice and smooth as it
flows out to sea, making it much easier
to grow crops.
All you got to do, get a bit of land
next to the water, flood the field, and
you can grow rice all year round.
Turns out, when nature is generous,
people have the capacity to start
thinking like traders. They have the
freedom to be more open, adaptable, and
quietly capitalist.
I think, basically, when it comes to
Vietnam, you got to remember that the
geography here isn't just a background
to the story, the geography is the
story.
And it's the Mekong's sleepy character,
which is, arguably, what makes this area
one of Vietnam's busiest export
powerhouses.
Almost 2/3 of Mekong Delta is used for
agriculture, and 95% of all Vietnamese
rice is exported from here.
Which is how this area earned the not at
all exaggerated title of the rice bowl.
If you want to know how a communist
nation cashes in on capitalism, the rice
fields are a good place to start.
Okay.
Come and meet me here. Hong and her
family have farmed rice here for
generations.
Uh, are there snakes in there?
I would say this family have had enough
ups and downs to want to keep a lucky
charm close by.
After the war, the Vietnamese government
rolled out socialism in the south, which
meant that family-run farms like Hong's
were forced to hand over most of their
rice harvest to the state.
International trade was highly
restricted, and Vietnam quickly became
one of the poorest countries in the
world.
By the 1980s, the mood started shifting.
The government introduced a series of
reforms called doi moi, which allowed
for private enterprise and international
trade.
Communism stayed on paper, capitalism
arrived in practice.
I actually quite like it.
And as soon as the family were able to
freely trade, they used some of their
land to farm prawns.
So, the mud comes to like there.
This is not my natural habitat.
Oh my lord, look at that mud.
Okay, I'm getting I'm getting I'm
getting it.
Yeah, we're in. We're never getting out.
To catch the prawns, we
Well, mostly they work together
maneuvering these 50-m nets to herd the
prawns to take to market.
I see what you mean about the Vietnamese
being strong.
I mean, I'm just genuinely struggling to
keep up with them.
Let alone doing the netting.
For the last 35 years, the family has
made a modest, reliable income from
their rice fields grown from the fresh
water of the Mekong.
And elsewhere on the farm, they have
been happily farming prawns to trade for
profit.
But recently, the tides have begun to
turn,
quite literally.
Climate change has hit hard here.
Rice has dropped from three harvests a
year to just one during the rainy
season, when there's enough fresh water
to flush out the sea.
So the rest of the year the family have
come up with an ingenious idea with what
to do with those salty flooded fields.
Fewer rice crops might sound
counterintuitive, but putting both rice
and prawns in together means that Hong
can still use her fields all year round
rather than just the rainy season.
And even better, the waste from the
prawns acts as a natural fertilizer to
the rice. And when the rice breaks down,
it feeds the prawns. A brilliantly
efficient little loop.
No chemicals, no fertilizers needed,
which makes these beauties organic. So
Hong can sell them at a premium price.
Success here takes ingenuity.
But rather than keeping their methods to
themselves, Hong's husband is sharing it
with the world on social media.
Do you really?
That's amazing.
I mean, we were talking about openness,
right, of this region. Of like being
cosmopolitan, of being like reaching out
to the world, what what a great
demonstration.
You're an influencer.
It's a rare sight where ideology and
pragmatism are sharing a muddy field.
Communism might be the system, but it's
capitalism that has given people the
flexibility to adjust.
Maybe those old north-south ideological
divides aren't acting as opposing forces
anymore.
Instead, they've somehow started pulling
in the same direction.
Certainly what seems to be powering the
country's regeneration.
But there are some people for whom
Vietnam's transformation isn't just
about money.
It's about something much more personal.
Until now, everyone I've spoken to has
had a story about resilience, about
rebuilding and moving forward.
But there are other people, Vietnamese
people, who had been counting on
American support. And for them, the end
of the war wasn't a time of hope and
liberation, but desperation.
100 km north of the Mekong Delta is
District 12.
On the surface, just a normal
residential neighborhood. But for a
particular group of Vietnamese people,
this place holds deep significance.
In 1975, just as the war is reaching
this very chaotic conclusion, there were
thousands of children who'd been
orphaned by South Vietnamese families,
and probably many thousands more women
who were completely terrified about the
life of persecution that lay ahead for
their babies.
In the panic, lots of people fled. Some
by foot, some by boat, and some in the
arms of strangers, as part of a
controversial American mission known as
Operation Babylift.
The idea was to evacuate over 3,000
South Vietnamese babies and young
children to be adopted overseas
in the hope they'd get the chance to
live better lives.
The very first flight took off on the
4th of April at 16:03. But just as these
children had escaped Saigon, 12 minutes
later disaster struck.
The plane crash-landed right here in
District 12.
There were 314
people on board and somehow 176
survived.
Among them a 10-month-old baby, Odile.
Uh lucky baby like me were alive, but
the middle the older died.
My position in the plane I was on the
second floor at the end of the of the
plane and that's why my my life
was was saved.
A 10-month-old baby in the wreckage of a
plane at the end of a war, what happened
then? I went to an American hospital in
Ho Chi Minh for my injuries and after 1
or 2 weeks I arrived in France in Paris.
Tell me about your French parents then.
I have a chance to have a lovely
parents. They gave me a lot of chance to
to succeed in my life. Odile built a
fulfilling life in France and became a
successful lawyer.
But like many adoptees she always
wondered where she came from.
So as a young adult she returned to
Vietnam hoping the nuns from her
orphanage could help trace her birth
mother.
So this is
my birth act. With in there is my the
name of my Vietnamese mother
here.
So you knew her name? I know the name
but only the name, not the date of of
birth.
I think after the end of the war, a lot
of document
have been burned.
And so, it's very difficult to to to
find to find her.
Missing records mean that out of the
3,000 baby lift children, only 12 have
been reunited with their birth families.
I don't know the reasons to abandon me,
but if I have the chance to to meet her
now, it's
just to to say uh
I I
you you are not guilty.
Really, uh when
um people meet me and say, "Oh, you are
a victim of a crash." No, I'm a lucky
girl because I I love the life.
Just just here, around the corner on the
on the left.
Odile has not been able to find her
birth mother,
but she came to visit District 12 to
trace part of her story.
It's just here. Oh, wow.
>> And inside, you have a piece of metal of
the plane just here.
>> Oh my goodness me. The plane broke into
four parts during the crash, scattering
across the neighborhood. This shrine
marks the spot of the first impact. A
remaining shard of the aircraft lodged
into the soil beneath forms the base of
the shrine.
Oh my goodness me, that's properly
embedded in the ground.
It's so lovely to keep this monument for
the victim of baby lift and someone like
me who want to to come back.
Odile's identity sits between two
cultures, the one that raised her and
the one she never stopped belonging to.
Yes. A fresh coconut.
>> Yes. Oh, no, I want that as well. Ah,
you want the same? Okay, so two more
high high coconut.
Here. Thank you. You 25 years ago that
she first returned to her motherland,
and now she wants to stay.
Have you decided to live in Vietnam
then? Yes, because I want to have a
relationship and connection with my
people. I want to know if I can be a a
real Vietnamese here. And so, it's to
enjoy and to discover this amazing
country,
uh Vietnam Vietnam is now On that score
at least, Odile's story isn't unique.
There's been this quiet shift that's
part of Vietnam's transformation. This
is a country that people once fled,
and now it's drawing them in.
The war, it's behind us. It's finished.
No, it's time not to to to forget, but
just say
it was the past. And now, the important
is present and the future. As well as
people like Odile returning, Vietnam is
now a popular destination for expats and
of course tourists.
It seems inevitable that the country's
next chapter will be at least partly
shaped by those who choose to come.
But I've learned that Vietnam,
especially the north, can also be very
conservative.
So, what happens when outside influences
meet long-held traditions?
I've left the south of Vietnam, and I'm
now traveling over a thousand kilometers
north into Lao Cai province.
This is Vietnam's hilly northwest
frontier, right on the border with
China.
There's just no doubt in my mind that
train is the best possible way to do
this journey.
Just like the scenery,
kind of rhythmic wheels, it's just
absolutely dreamy.
Sometimes I quite like my job.
This is one of those days.
The train is taking me from Hanoi to
Sapa, a centuries-old trading post and
home to a number of Vietnam's smaller
ethnic groups.
I think because Vietnam is this
one-party state, it's really easy to
imagine it has this very homogeneous
population. Um and it's true that the
majority group, uh the Kinh, they make
up 86% of people here. But there is a
bit more to the story because there are,
in fact, 53 other distinct ethnic
groups, each of which has their own
language, their own traditions and
cultures.
At least five of these groups call the
mountains around Sapa home, including
the Red Dao, numbering around 12,000
people.
They have a reputation for rich
spiritual traditions and herbal
medicines.
Thank you. It's very heavy.
Thank you so much.
Amazing. Thank you. It wasn't long ago
that these areas were too remote to be
reached easily by outsiders.
Now, with an influx of tourists like me,
have these groups managed to maintain
their distinct identities?
Oh, my day.
Uh I think I might be an idiot.
But I was sort of expecting, you know,
this quaint little village in the middle
of nowhere.
Also, wearing jewelry, I feel right at
home.
This is the central market where the Red
Dao, in their distinctive red
headscarves, come to trade and hustle
for business.
It's also become a major tourist
hotspot.
Back in the early '90s, there were
around 17,000 tourists here each year.
Now, it's close to 8 and 1/2 million.
Lots of them from Southeast Asia's urban
middle class looking for a highland
getaway.
Local guides help visitors explore the
region's rich culture.
And mine is May Tram. How are you doing?
I'm Hannah. It's lovely to meet you.
>> She tailors all her tours for the
different tourists.
Traditional Red Dao food is one of the
major attractions.
This one is a very special in here.
Yeah.
>> is a horse meat. Horse meat? Yeah.
Believed to boost strength and
circulation, it is a favorite among
Southeast Asian tourists.
Western palates,
less so.
Delicious.
So, May Tram's invited me back to her
village for a very different Red Dao
tradition.
Good. Ready? A herbal spa treatment.
Now, that's more like it.
The Red Dao have practiced herbal baths
for centuries as a form of traditional
medicine to treat pain and restore
energy.
And I intend to take full advantage,
thank you very much.
Let me tell you my ailments. I'm quite
tired. Mhm. What else? Oh, my joints are
a bit sore. Mhm.
That's pretty much it, actually. So,
that you do the herbal bath. That's the
best. Mhm. Now, you can sleep very well.
>> Okay, May. Yeah. Thank you.
Each bath is tailored using botanical
knowledge of over 3,000 plants.
Here, you can smell but this one. Huh?
Smell it.
Ooh. Wow.
>> Oh, yeah. Put that in. Yeah.
It's a look at family of the ginger.
>> Mhm. Oh, wow.
Oh, yeah. Now I smell it. Thank you. Put
that in there.
What's this one for? This one is good
for when you tired like a your
>> Oh, I'm tired. I'm I'm taking a lot of
this one. Okay.
This knowledge has been passed down
through generations of Red Dao women.
You know this one? We got to give card.
If you know how to use, it's a medicine.
Uh-huh. If not, it's a poison. Oh,
really? Can kill you in 10 seconds.
>> No. Uh uh it's different one. This one
is different.
>> going to have a bath. Mhm.
But they look similar, do they? For me,
I can tell. Yeah, but But for you,
I'm not sure. That's just as well
because these baths have become hugely
popular for tourists. Demand is such
that May Tram has built dedicated spa
rooms in her home to run multiple baths.
And around 40 other households in the
village also provide a similar service.
It makes for a very lucrative business.
I mean,
the money I imagine Yeah. Mhm. makes a
big difference, right?
>> Yeah. I can took my parents traveling a
bit outside.
>> Oh, really? Yeah, they never take a
train before, so
they took a train and sleeping bus.
Yeah. And then fly a bit to in the
south. Where did you go? We go to Ho Chi
Minh. And I also love to see different
place also. Yeah. You can come back with
me to your country. You can come back
with me. Okay. Then we should go to your
country.
But before May Tram books her flight,
I've got a bath to take.
Like most things here, it's a family
effort.
Four generations sit around the fire as
the simmering herbs reach deliciously
aromatic perfection.
That was nice.
Remember all those skyscrapers and those
high-rise flats that we saw in Saigon? I
mean, they feel like a completely
different world away from here.
And I think that's a reminder that the
modernization of Vietnam has happened
unbelievably quickly.
And yet, at the same time, this this
place it doesn't feel like it's this,
you know, protected enclave that's
trying to resist the threats from the
outside. This this feels like a a
village of people who know exactly who
they are, who know what traditions are
important to them, and have worked our
way to balance all those tensions, to
actually make tourism work for them.
It's that the enemy's adaptability I've
seen again and again. This is a country
that knows how to change, but it also
knows what to hold on to. Time and
again, I've noticed that it's family
that keeps turning up at the center of
things. And of course, family matters
everywhere,
but I get the sense that there's
something subtly different here.
But family is the anchor that's holding
everything together, even as the world
around it shifts.
I've left the mountains behind
and traveled nearly 300 km southeast
back to Hanoi, the capital, the
political center, and the heart of the
more traditional north.
And in the maze of streets of the city's
old quarter, See how skinny they are?
Look. it's the topological layout of the
housing that catches my eye.
So, legend has it in the 1800s, the
French introduced a tax that was based
on how much of the building touched the
street. And so, the clever Vietnamese
came up with a workaround by making
very, very skinny buildings that go back
a really really long way.
When they do this, they have one shop on
one end, one on the other, and then 100
m between the two where they have all
the residential stuff. And just to kind
of demonstrate how skinny this is, this
is I don't think you could quite Could I
sleep in that way? I mean,
but not comfortably.
These tube houses, as they've become
known, so long that they're usually
commercial and residential.
Apparently, one of these has got a
coffee shop inside. And once you start
looking, you even see the central
importance of family in the
architecture. Look how beautiful that
is.
And then it opens out into this
absolutely stunning courtyard.
Oh my goodness me. That is because the
interior follows principles of
Confucianism,
an ancient Chinese belief system
widespread in Vietnam, in which social
hierarchies are reflected in building
design. Down on the ground floor, this
is like
the public space, the kind of
shared community bit.
And then as you go further up, you get
the more family spaces.
Oh, look how beautiful.
Oh, this is stunning.
And then at the top, there is a private
space for the family to honor their
parents and ancestors who have since
departed.
Got a little altar.
All those Confucian values of family and
tradition.
It's all very well looking at buildings,
but if I'm going to test out my theory
that family is key to Vietnam's
transformation,
I'm going to need to find one I can
befriend.
Luckily, I just so happen to be here for
Tết, Vietnam's most important holiday.
It's a three-day celebration, usually in
January or February, that marks the
Lunar New Year and the start of spring.
There is a strong emphasis on family
reunion, so everyone is heading home
with blossoms and kumquats thought to
bring luck and prosperity in the year
ahead.
Look at my family, a whole big family.
>> TT is part of our British production
crew, and I have persuaded him to take
us to his hometown and celebrate with
his family.
This is a huge privilege. So, kumquat on
board, we are traveling 200 km further
east.
Let's go.
TT's family live in Cu Rong, a small
coastal town near Ha Long Bay.
Did you actually grow up here, then?
Yes, I uh grew up here. Also, my
great-parents' house is on the right
here at the TT moved to the UK in 2017
with his English wife.
Now, he's part of the 5 million-strong
Viet Kieu, or Vietnamese people living
abroad.
HELLO,
BONNIE. HELLO.
LIKE TT, HUNDREDS OF thousands of Viet
Kieu make a big effort to return home to
visit extended family. Hello. Oh my
gosh, so many people. It's lovely to
meet you. How are you? My mom
Thank you so much for having me.
And I have a probably like hundred of
cousins. Welcome to my big family. Oh my
gosh.
These big extended families are the
norm, and every year they all gather
together to celebrate Tet. Look,
that's a me here. With the bow tie.
Little uh little bow tie, yes. Cute. Not
everyone in TT's family photos is still
around, but they're not really gone,
either.
Because before sitting down to eat, we
visit the ancestral altar to give thanks
and offer them a portion of the meal.
The rising incense is said to form a
bridge between the living and those
family members who passed, allowing
prayers and offerings to reach their
ancestors.
It's a way of honoring the past while
gently acknowledging that we're each
part of a much bigger timeline.
T.T.'s family Tet celebrations include a
toast of Vietnamese rice wine.
This and the main meal marks the
transition between the old and THE NEW
YEAR.
40 RELATIVES HAVE CRAMMED themselves in
here just for the celebration.
That says something.
You know, I think I think lots of
cultures would say that family was
important to them, but there aren't many
who have an altar at the top of their
house where they go and regularly visit
and speak to their ancestors.
Is it just like
paying your respects to the past or is
it more than that? It's not only
respecting the past and because people
believe the spirit
helping
the people in the life. So, you offering
something to them today, that's mean you
invite them to come to joy the dinner
with you with the family. So, is that a
belief then that now your ancestors are
here with us enjoying this this family
occasion with us? Of course it is.
I like that a lot.
This celebration isn't just honoring
your ancestors, it's including them in
the present.
And knowing that one day, in turn,
you'll each take your place on the
altar.
Makes people feel part of something
bigger than yourself,
a through line through history.
Honestly, it's making me rethink a few
things.
You know, I think that everyone in the
West has this idea that the Vietnam War
was about communism versus capitalism.
But But for you, what was it about? What
were you fighting for?
Through all of Vietnam's change and
challenges, those traditional family
values have remained.
Honoring traditions while charging
forwards.
In Vietnam, those things aren't
opposites.
They're intertwined.
So, it's no surprise to me that the New
Year's Day celebrations continue with a
strong family theme.
I've come in traditional dress with TT,
his sister, and his nieces to Cuong
Temple, a 700-year-old
shrine honoring Vietnam's ancient
national heroes.
We're making offerings for protection
and prosperity in the year ahead, just
like generations have done before.
When you're walking on these steps, are
you like your great great great
grandfather walked on these steps? Of
course, because it's not only my great
grandparents'
uh spirit, but also you can see hundred
amount of people following.
New Year here isn't just about
resolutions and hope for the future.
It's also about putting to rest the
victories and grievances of the year
just gone
and beginning again.
And it's also a reminder you didn't get
here on your own. Every step forward
rests on those who came before.
You look so good.
Those younger than you are given lì xì,
red envelopes with lucky money. It's a
small way for the elders to say, "We
care about your future."
You look so good.
On the day I arrived, weaving through
the motorbike chaos in the city, I was
struck by the quiet understanding that
everyone here seemed to share that to
get to where you're going, you have to
make space for everyone else.
But now, after traveling the length of
the country, I can see that spirit of
cooperation is deeply fundamental to the
people of Vietnam.
Because here, you're never just acting
for yourself.
You're part of a lineage, one piece in a
much larger picture.
They use that platform of family values
and of collective will to really build
again with this hope and optimism for
the future.
And I'll tell you what, it is really
working.